# 301 - Class 12 - CRUD

## Why this topic matters  

  This topic matters as it we will most likely be working with http status codes when building our databases.

## Status Codes Based On REST Methods

1. **In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:**

    * 100’s = HTTP status codes in the range of 100 to 199 are known as informational status codes. These codes are used by the server to provide information about the progress of the client's request. They are used to facilitate communication between the client and server before the actual response is sent. They help in providing feedback about the request's progress or changes in the protocol being used.  

    * 200’s = HTTP status codes in the range of 200 to 299 are known as success codes. These codes are used to indicate that the client's request was successfully received, understood, and processed by the server.  

    * 300’s = HTTP status codes in the range of 300 to 399 are known as redirection codes. These codes are used to inform the client that the resource they are requesting isn't available at the expected or current location. Instead, the client needs to issue a request to a new location to retrieve the resource.  

    * 400’s = HTTP status codes in the range of 400 to 499 are known as client error codes. These codes indicate that the client, typically a web browser or application, has made an invalid request to the server. They are meant to inform the client that there is an issue with their request.  

    * 500’s = HTTP status codes in the range of 500 to 599 are known as server error codes. These codes indicate that the server has encountered an error or is unable to fulfill the client's request due to issues on the server side. Server errors are typically not caused by the client's actions but rather problems with the server itself.

2. **What is a status code 202?**  

    202 status code means the server has received the request and started processing it, but the final outcome (completion of the request) is not yet determined.

3. **What is a status code 308?**

    HTTP status code 308 is "Permanent Redirect." This status code means that the resource requested has been permanently moved to a new URL, and all future requests should use this new URL.  

    Imagine you go to your favorite coffee shop only to find a sign that says, "We've moved permanently to [new address] and remember to order exactly what you did last time!" This sign is like a 308 redirect, telling you where to go and to repeat your last order exactly as it was.

4. **What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?**  

    HTTP status code 204, which stands for "No Content." This status code indicates that the request was successful, but there is no content to send in the response body.  

    It's like dropping off laundry at a cleaning service and they simply give you a thumbs-up to indicate "All good, nothing more to say," instead of providing any further explanation or details.

5. **What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?**  

    HTTP status code 410, which is defined as "Gone." This status code specifically indicates that the resource you requested was once available but is now permanently removed and no longer available.  

    It's like going back to a bookstore where you once found a specific book, but this time, not only is the book not there, but the staff informs you it won't be coming back — it's gone for good, unlike a 404 "Not Found" where the book might just be misplaced or temporarily unavailable.

6. **What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?**  

    This status code means that the server understands the request but refuses to authorize it. There is proper communication with the server, but the server won't allow access the resource, regardless of authentication.  

    Its like having a membership card to an exclusive club (your request is recognized), but being denied entry at the door for a specific event or area because you don't have the special permissions or rights needed to access it (the server is refusing to grant access). This is different from a 401 "Unauthorized" status, where it's more like you don't have the club membership card at all.

## Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick

1. **Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?**

    **Security:** The database connection string is a sensitive piece of information. It contains credentials (like usernames and passwords) that grant access to database. Hardcoding this information into source code, especially if it's stored in a version control system like Git, can expose these credentials to unauthorized users. Placing the string in an .env file and then referencing it in code helps keep it secure.

2. **What is middleware?**

     Software that acts as a bridge or intermediary between other software components or systems. It's like a translator or facilitator that allows different parts of a system, or different systems, to communicate and work together effectively. Like a diplomat who speaks multiple languages and helps different nations (software components) understand each other and work together smoothly.  

     This includes software that enables interaction between databases and applications, or different types of databases, handling tasks like database connection management, query handling, or data transformation.  

3. **What does app.use(express.json()) do?**

    It is a middleware function call that tells the Express application to use a built-in middleware to automatically parse incoming requests with JSON payload, which means it takes the raw data from requests that are in JSON format and converts it into JavaScript objects before it reaches your request handlers.  

    Useful for applications that need to process JSON data from clients, such as RESTful APIs where clients send data to the server in JSON format. This middleware allows to easily access this data as an object through req.body in route handlers or other middleware functions.  

    For example, if client sends a POST request with a JSON body like { "name": "Alice" }, you can access this in your route handler like this:  

    ```javscript
    app.post('/users', (req, res) => {
      console.log(req.body.name); // prints 'Alice'
    });
    ```

    Without express.json(), the req.body would be undefined, and wouldn't be able to directly access the JSON data sent by the client.  

4. **What does the /:id mean in a route?**

    In Express.js, a route with /:id in its path is using a route parameter.  _'/:id'_ is a placeholder for a dynamic value that will be part of the URL when a client makes a request. This dynamic portion of the route is called a "parameter", and in this case, it's named id.  

    Its like each route in Express application is a mailbox in an apartment building. The building address is the base URL, and each mailbox (route) has a unique identifier, like an apartment number. If one of the mailboxes is labeled with a placeholder, like _/:id_, this mailbox can receive mail (requests) for any number put in place of id. The specific number (the parameter value) tells whose mail (request data) is being handled.

5. **What is the difference between PUT and PATCH?**  

    * PUT is used for replacing a resource entirely.  

    * PATCH is used for updating part of a resource.  

6. **How do you make a default value in a schema?**  

    To set a default value in a schema in the context of MongoDB with Mongoose, specify default value in schema definition for each field a default is desired.

    Example: schema for a user, want to set a default value for a field, isActive to be true by default if no specified.

    ```javascript
    const mongoose = require('mongoose');
    const { Schema } = mongoose;

    const userSchema = new Schema({
      name: {
        type: String,
        required: true
      },
      isActive: {
        type: Boolean,
        default: true
      }
    });

    const User = mongoose.model('User', userSchema);
    ```

    For isActive, the default value is set to true. So, if a new User is created without specifying isActive, it will automatically be set to true.

7. **What does a 500 error status code mean?**

    A 500 error status code indicates an "Internal Server Error." It's a generic error message given by a web server when it encounters a problem that prevents it from fulfilling the request but the server cannot specify what the exact problem is.  

    500 Internal Server Error can be caused by numerous issues, such as:

    * Errors in the server's programming or scripts.
    * Overloaded or malfunctioning servers.
    * Issues with backend databases.
    * Configuration errors.

8. **What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?**  

    * 200 OK is a general success status meaning the request was successful and the server is sending back what you asked for. For example, when retrieve data from a server (like using a GET request), and the server successfully returns data, it typically responds with a 200 status code.  

    * 201 Created is more specific, indicating that your request not only succeeded but also resulted in a new resource being created. Most commonly seen in response to POST requests that result in the creation of a new record in a database.

## Links to resources used for these notes

* [Status Codes Based On REST Methods](https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/)
* [Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFbNIlppjAuEX4znoulh0Cw)
* Chat GPT
