# 401 - Class 17 - AWS: S3 and Lambda

## Why This Topic Matters

Able to integrate and leverage the use of AWS when building our own projects.

## AWS S3

1. **What is Amazon S3?**  
    Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service. Users can store and retrieve any amount of data, at any time, from anywhere on the web. It's designed for a high scale of durability, availability, and performance.  

2. **Name some use cases for Amazon S3.**  
    Build a data lake, backup and restore critical data, arhicve data at the lowest cost, run cloud-native applications.  

3. **Name some benefits of using Amazon S3.**  
    Scalability, durability and availability, security, cost-effectiveness, performance, data management tools, flexibility, integration with other AWS services.

## AWS Lambda Basics

1. **What is AWS Lambda?**  
    AWS Lambda is a serverless computing service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS). Users of AWS Lambda create functions, self-contained applications written in one of the supported languages and runtimes, and upload them to AWS Lambda, which executes those functions in an efficient and flexible manner.

    The Lambda functions can perform any kind of computing task, from serving web pages and processing streams of data to calling APIs and integrating with other AWS services.

    The concept of “serverless” computing refers to not needing to maintain your own servers to run these functions. AWS Lambda is a fully managed service that takes care of all the infrastructure for you. And so “serverless” doesn’t mean that there are no servers involved: it just means that the servers, the operating systems, the network layer and the rest of the infrastructure have already been taken care of, so that you can focus on writing application code.  

2. **Name some use cases for AWS Lambdas.**  
    - individual tasks run for a short time;
    - each task is generally self-contained;
    - there is a large difference between the lowest and highest levels in the workload of the application.

    Some of the most common use cases for AWS Lambda that fit these criteria are:
    - Scalable APIs
    - Data processing

3. **Describe “serverless” to a non-technical friend.**
     “Serverless” doesn’t mean that there are no servers involved: it just means that the servers, the operating systems, the network layer and the rest of the infrastructure have already been taken care of, so that you can focus on writing application code.  
     This is akin to having a cleaning robot in your home that you own.  This means maintenance, charging, and set up for each task. Going serverless would mean the robot only shows up when there's a chore to do, handles it on its own, and then leaves without requiring any upkeep from you.  You enjoy a clean home without worry of maintenance or storage.

## CDN

1. **What is a CDN?**  
    A Content Delivery Network (CDN) is a geographically distributed group of servers that work together to provide fast delivery of Internet content. A CDN allows for the fast transfer of data needed for loading Internet content including HTML pages, javascript files, stylesheets, images, and videos.  

2. **How does a CDN work with relation to the website visitor?**  
    When a user requests a webpage that is part of a content delivery network, the CDN will redirect the request from the originating site’s server to a server in the CDN that is closest to the user and deliver the cached content. CDNs will also communicate with the originating server to deliver any content that has not been previously cached. In turn, the speed is improved by distributing content closer to the website visitors by using a nearby CDN server, causing visitors to experience faster page loading times.  
  
3. **What are the benefits of employing a CDN?**  
    An example is, instead of a user in London trying to access a server in LA, which can cause slower Internet speeds, the user would be redirected through a CDN that is geographically closest to them (London, Paris, Stockholm, etc). As of today, the majority of web traffic goes through through CDNs, including traffic from major sites like Facebook, Netflix, and Amazon.

    Employing a CDN doesn’t only speed up the delivery of Internet content, it helps protect your website against certain forms of cyber attacks, such as Denial of Service attacks. It protects against these threats because CDNs allow for the handling of more traffic and withstanding hardware failure better than many origin servers.

## What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

To learn how to incorporate Lambda into my work flow.

## Resources

- [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)
- [AWS Lambda Basics](https://www.serverless.com/aws-lambda)
- [CDN](https://cyberhoot.com/cybrary/content-delivery-network-cdn/)
- Chat GPT
