# 401 - Class 16 - AWS: Cloud Servers

## AWS EC2

1. **What is an EC2 Instance?**  

    Amazon EC2 is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale computing easier for developers.  

    An Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) instance is like renting a computer. The size and power of the EC2 instance can be chosen based on needs.  They can be used as needed and pay only for the time used.  It is a flexible and scalable way to manage computing without having to actually own and maintain the hardware.

2. **Name 2 use cases for EC2.**  
    **Web Hosting:**  
    Servers can be set up that run website applications.  The ability to scale server resources up or down depending on traffic is useful during peak times, ensuring the website remains responsive without overpending on hardware.

    **Batch Data Processing:**  
    If there is large amount of data to be processed (images, videos, datasets), EC2 instances can be spun up to handle the workload and then turned off once processing is complete.  This is cost-effective and efficient, as you only pay for compute time used.

3. **Provide 1 reason to use ECS instead of a service such as Heroku, Digital Ocean, or Render.com.**  
    One reason to use Amazon EC2 over traditional services like Heroku, Digital Ocean, or Render.com is its superior flexibility and control.  

    EC2 allows developers to instantly adjust computing resources in response to changing demands, which is not typically feasible with fixed-resource models offered by other hosting services.  

    Additionally, EC2 users can customize and reconfigure their instances as needed and pay only for the resources they actually use, often at very competitive rates.

## EC2 For Humans

1. **Where can we find EC2 on the AWS Console?**  
    EC2 can be found under the 'Compute' section in AWS services.  Clicking on EC2 will then take user to EC2 dashboard.  

2. **Explain the general difference between T2 Micro and XL.**  
    **T2 Micro:** This is one of the smallest instance types available. It's designed for low-demand applications with intermittent bursts of CPU usage that don't require continuous full CPU performance. T2 Micro instances are well-suited for small databases, low-traffic websites, and development environments where the workload is relatively light.  
    **T2 XL:** This instance type is larger and offers more resources compared to the Micro. It's designed for applications that need more consistent CPU performance and greater memory. T2 XL can handle medium-load application servers, more heavily trafficked websites, and larger databases more effectively than the Micro.  

3. **Explain a “Compute Cycle” to a non-technical friend.**
    It would be like going to a library, find a book, reading the required information, and leaving library.  A compute cycle is the computer doing one complete job of whatever it was tasked with doing. In reference to the example the computer would be retrieving data, processing it, and outputting results (based on instructions given).

## Elastic Beanstalk

1. **What is Elastic Beanstalk?**  
    According to the YouTube description AWS Elastic Beanstalk is an easy-to-use service for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, .NET, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache HTTP Server, Apache Tomcat, Nginx, Passenger, and IIS. You can simply upload your code and Elastic Beanstalk automatically handles the deployment, from capacity provisioning, load balancing, auto-scaling to application health monitoring.  

2. **Describe the relationship between EC2 and Elastic Beanstalk.**  
    Elastic Beanstalk uses EC2 instances to run applications.  Elastic Beanstalk make the process simpler by managing the infrastructure and platform stack so that developers can focus more on the application and not the infrastructure it runs on.  

3. **Name some benefits of using Elastic Beanstalk.**
    Benefits of using Elastic Beanstalk is simplified management, quick deployment, automatic scaling, control when needed, and cost effectiveness.

## Additional Questions

1. **Looking ahead at this module’s course schedule, What do you look forward to learning?**  
    I look forward to learning more about AWS and the features it provides.

2. **What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?**  
    Get familiar with using Elastic Beanstalk
