# 401 - Class 18 - AWS: API, Dynamo and Lambda

## Why This Topic Matters

Able to integrate and leverage the use of AWS when building our own projects.

## AWS API Gateway Overview

1. **What is Amazon API Gateway?**  
    Amazon API Gateway is a managed service that allows developers to define the HTTP endpoints of a REST API or a WebSocket API and connect those endpoints with the corresponding backend business logic. It also handles authentication, access control, monitoring, and tracing of API requests.

    Many Serverless applications use Amazon API Gateway, which conveniently replaces the API servers with a managed serverless solution.

2. **Why is Amazon API Gateway an important part of the Serverless ecosystem?**  
    Within the Serverless ecosystem, API Gateway is the piece that ties together Serverless functions and API definitions. Being able to trigger the execution of a Serverless function directly in response to an HTTP request is the key reason why API Gateway is so valuable in Serverless setups: it enables a truly serverless architecture for web applications. When using API Gateway together with other AWS services, it’s possible to build a fully functional customer-facing web application without maintaining a single server yourself.

    This brings the advantages of the serverless model—scalability, low maintenance, and low cost due to low overhead—to mainstream web applications.

3. **How does API Gateway integrate with other AWS services?**  
    Many AWS services support integration with Amazon API Gateway, including:

    * AWS Lambda: run Lambda functions to generate HTTP API responses.
    * AWS SNS: publish SNS notifications when an HTTP API endpoint is accessed.
    * Amazon Cognito: provide authentication and authorization for your HTTP APIs.

## AWS API Gateway

1. **What are the some benefits of using Amazon API Gateway?**  
    API Gateway handles all the tasks involved in accepting and processing up to hundreds of thousands of concurrent API calls, including traffic management, CORS support, authorization and access control, throttling, monitoring, and API version management. API Gateway has no minimum fees or startup costs. You pay for the API calls you receive and the amount of data transferred out and, with the API Gateway tiered pricing model, you can reduce your cost as your API usage scales.  

2. **What two API types might you choose from?**
    * **RESTful APIs**
        * Build RESTful APIs optimized for serverless workloads and HTTP backends using HTTP APIs. HTTP APIs are the best choice for building APIs that only require API proxy functionality. If your APIs require API proxy functionality and API management features in a single solution, API Gateway also offers REST APIs.

    * **WEBSOCKET APIs**
        * Build real-time two-way communication applications, such as chat apps and streaming dashboards, with WebSocket APIs. API Gateway maintains a persistent connection to handle message transfer between your backend service and your clients.

## AWS DynamoDB Guide

1. **What is DynamoDB?**  
    DynamoDB is a hosted NoSQL database offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS). It offers:

    * reliable performance even as it scales;
    * a managed experience, so you won't be SSH-ing into servers to upgrade the crypto libraries;
    * a small, simple API allowing for simple key-value access as well as more advanced query patterns.  

    DynamoDB is a particularly good fit for the following use cases:

    **Applications with large amounts of data and strict latency requirements.** As your amount of data scales, JOINs and advanced SQL operations can slow down your queries. With DynamoDB, your queries have predictable latency up to any size, including over 100 TBs!

    **Serverless applications using AWS Lambda.** AWS Lambda provides auto-scaling, stateless, ephemeral compute in response to event triggers. DynamoDB is accessible via an HTTP API and performs authentication & authorization via IAM roles, making it a perfect fit for building Serverless applications.

    **Data sets with simple, known access patterns.** If you're generating recommendations and serving them to users, DynamoDB's simple key-value access patterns make it a fast, reliable choice.

2. **Under what circumstances would you recommend DynamoDB over MongoDB?**  
    When you need to make sure you can run it in a fast, safe, and reliable way. DynamoDB has a more radical model. Rather than thinking about instances, you only think about usage. You are not responsible for installing software, managing servers, or increasing your cluster size. You only tell AWS how much read and write capacity you want (or skip it altogether by using On-Demand Pricing). As your data usage needs grow, you simply increase the capacity you need.  

    AWS will completely handle the instances in their DynamoDB fleet, so you don't need to think about instance failure or degredation. You don't need to worry about backups. You don't need to worry about increasing your cluster size.

    Also for connection and security. DynamoDB is a service-based database hosted by AWS. With DynamoDB, all access is done using the DynamoDB API over HTTPS. Rather than relying on network partitioning to protect your database, DynamoDB relies on AWS IAM permissions to authenticate and authorize clients.

## AWS DynamoDB

**Explain to a non-technical friend how DynamoDB works.**  
Imagine a futuristic library where books (data) are stored in a highly organized manner. Each book has a unique ID (primary key) and is placed in such a way that the librarian (DynamoDB) can fetch it instantly. Whether you're looking for a specific book or a set of books, the librarian knows exactly where to find them without wasting any time.

## Dynamoose

1. **What is Dynamoose?**  
    Dynamoose is a modeling tool for Amazon's DynamoDB. It is designed to provide a simple and consistent way to interact with DynamoDB in Node.js applications. It offers a high-level abstraction, making it easier to work with DynamoDB by allowing you to define schemas, models, and perform CRUD operations in a more intuitive and less error-prone manner.

2. **What are some key features of Dynamoose?**  
    * Type safety
    * High level API
    * Easy to use syntax
    * DynamoDB Single Table Design Support
    * Ability to transform data before saving or retrieving items
    * Strict data modeling (validation, required attributes, and more)
    * Support for DynamoDB Transactions
    * Powerful Conditional/Filtering Support
    * Callback & Promise support
    * AWS Multi-region support

## Reflection

**What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?**  
To learn more about how to use DynamoDB together with Lambda and any prior learnings of AWS so far.

## Resources

* [AWS API Gateway Overview](https://www.serverless.com/guides/amazon-api-gateway)
* [AWS API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/)
* [AWS DynamoDB Guide](https://www.dynamodbguide.com/what-is-dynamo-db/)
* [AWS DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/)
* [Dynamoose](https://dynamoosejs.com/getting_started/Introduction)
* Chat GPT
