# 401 - Class 29 - Advanced State with Reducers

## Extracting State Logic into a Reducer

1. **What is the motivation for adding a reducer?**  

    As your components grow in complexity, it can get harder to see at a glance all the different ways in which a component’s state gets updated. To reduce this complexity and keep all your logic in one easy-to-access place, you can move that state logic into a single function outside your component, called a “reducer”.

2. **What are actions in the context of a reducer? How are they different than setting state directly?**  

    Managing state with reducers is slightly different from directly setting state. Instead of telling React “what to do” by setting state, you specify “what the user just did” by dispatching “actions” from your event handlers.

3. **What common list operation is useReduce named for, and why?**

    Although reducers can “reduce” the amount of code inside your component, they are actually named after the reduce() operation that you can perform on arrays.  The reduce() operation lets you take an array and “accumulate” a single value out of many.  
    The function you pass to reduce is known as a “reducer”. It takes the result so far and the current item, then it returns the next result.  
    React reducers are an example of the same idea: they take the state so far and the action, and return the next state. In this way, they accumulate actions over time into state.

4. **When should you switch from useState to useReducer?**  

     Recommend using a reducer if you often encounter bugs due to incorrect state updates in some component, and want to introduce more structure to its code.

## What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

To learn as much as possible about how to incorporate 'useReducer()' in order to make code easier to manage, debug, and have a 'central' location for states.

## Resources

* [Extracting State Logic into a Reducer](https://react.dev/learn/extracting-state-logic-into-a-reducer)
* Chat GPT
