# 401 - Class 26 - Component Based UI

## Thinking in React

1. **Summarize the five steps of thinking in React.**
    1. Break the UI into a componenet hierarchy
    2. Build a static version in React
    3. Find the minimal bu complete representation of UI state
    4. Identify where state should live
    5. Add inverse data flow.

## State: A Componenet's Memory

1. **What is one reason a local variable isn’t sufficient for managing a React component?**  
    * Local variables don’t persist between renders. When React renders this component a second time, it renders it from scratch—it doesn’t consider any changes to the local variables.
    * Changes to local variables won’t trigger renders. React doesn’t realize it needs to render the component again with the new data.

2. **What is the argument to the useState hook, and what are the two parts of its return array?**  
    * The only argument to useState is the initial value of your state variable.
    * Two parts of the return array:  
        1. The state variable (index) with the value you stored.
        2. The state setter function (setIndex) which can update the state variable and trigger React to render the component again.

3. **How can Component A access state from Component B?**  
Remove state from child components and add it to their closest shared parent.

## What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

To learn as much as possible about how to use 'useState()' hooks and gain a deeper understanding of how child componenets interact with parent components.

## Resources

* [Thinking in React](https://react.dev/learn/thinking-in-react)
* [State: A Component's Memory](https://react.dev/learn/state-a-components-memory)
* Chat GPT
