# 401 - Class 39 - Redux - Tookit

## Redux Toolkit

1. **What concerns are addressed by Redux Toolkit?**

    * "Configuring a Redux store is too complicated"
    * "I have to add a lot of packages to get Redux to do anything useful"
    * "Redux requires too much boilerplate code"

2. **What does configureStore() do?**

    Wraps createStore to provide simplified configuration options and good defaults. It can automatically combine your slice reducers, adds whatever Redux middleware you supply, includes redux-thunk by default, and enables use of the Redux DevTools Extension

3. **How would I use createSlice()?**

    Accepts an object of reducer functions, a slice name, and an initial state value, and automatically generates a slice reducer with corresponding action creators and action types.

## Mobx

1. **What is Mobx?**  

    State management tool.

2. **How does MobX make it “impossible” to produce an inconsistent state?**  

     Make sure that everything that can be derived from the application state, will be derived. Automatically.

3. **How would we build a reactive user interface?**  

    Automatically execute code that solely depends on state. React components are (despite their name) not reactive out of the box. The observer HoC wrapper from the mobx-react-lite package fixes that by basically wrapping the React component in autorun. This keeps the component in sync with the state.

## Tutorial

  **1. What take-away(s) did this tutorial provide?**  

  How to create slices and how to create actions that can be used along with dispatch.

## Resources

* [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/introduction/getting-started)
* [Mobx](https://mobx.js.org/getting-started.html)
* Chat GPT
