# 201 - Class 10 - Debugging and Error Handling

## What Went Wrong? Troubleshooting JavaScript

1. **Name some key differences between a Syntax Error and a Logic Error**  
    * **Syntax errors:** These are spelling errors in your code that actually cause the program not to run at all, or stop working part way through — you will usually be provided with some error messages too. These are usually okay to fix, as long as you are familiar with the right tools and know what the error messages mean!

    * **Logic errors:** These are errors where the syntax is actually correct but the code is not what you intended it to be, meaning that program runs successfully but gives incorrect results. These are often harder to fix than syntax errors, as there usually isn't an error message to direct you to the source of the error.

2. **List a few types of errors that you have encountered in past lab assignments and explain how you were able to correct them.**  

    * **Syntax error:** was using wrong syntax to push data to an array.  I did an online search on 'syntax to push data to an array'.  

    * **Syntax error:** was using 'this' when it wasn't necessary since it was a global variable not unique to the object.  I fixed it by removing 'this' when referring to the variable I needed manipulated.  

    * **Logic error:** in a nested for loop, had the 'i' and 'j' reversed within the nested loop (salmon cookie project).  Kept getting an error in the console of the website. By drawing out on paper how the for loops flow, it helps me identify problems.

    * **Logic error:** when trying to figure out the proper ordering in order to remove the footer, recalculate totals and then re-add the footer.  At first I was able to render the new data, and add the footer, however the new rendered data would not add the overall totals.  What helped was writing out the process on paper and then going into the code.  The array and counter needed to be reset/cleared first in order to be able to recalculate totals.

3. **How will this topic continue to influence your long term goals?**  
The topic of troubleshooting is one that will most likely play a big role in my long term goals. Troubleshooting is part of the process of pursuing long term goals.  Action is taken and if it's not working we find out what the errors are (troubleshoot) and adjust accordingly so that eventually we arrive at the desired outcome/goal.

## The JavaScript Debugger

1. **How would you describe the JavaScript Debugger tool and how it works to someone just starting out in software development?**  
It is analogous to building a lego set. The structure being built is the code, and the guide book provided would act as the debugger (a tool to help identify any errors).  If somewhere along the lego build (code) something seems incorrect, we would use the guide book (debugger) to re-trace our steps up to certain points to identify where the lego build went wrong. Once we identify the step where we went wrong we can then examine the lego pieces (variables) to see what needs to be modified in order to get the lego build (code)correctly executed.  

2. **Define what a breakpoint is.**  
Places in code to pause execution and identify the problems that prevent code from executing properly.  This is like the lego example above where you can 'pause' on step 15 of the lego guide book and inspect the lego pieces and placements up to that point to identify any errors.

3. **What is the call stack?**  
A call stack keeps track of the order in which functions are called.  In relation to debugging this allows for showing the sequence of function(s) that were called up to where a breakpoint is set.  This is good for troubleshooting as it provides the ability to re-trace the steps up the error.

## Links to resources used for these notes

* [What Went Wrong? Troubleshooting JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/What_went_wrong)
* [The JavaScript Debugger](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/Tools_and_setup/What_are_browser_developer_tools#the_javascript_debugger)
