# 201 - Class 13 - Introduction to Persistence with Local Storage

## Local Storage and How To Use It On Websites

1. **Why would a developer use local storage for a web application?**  

    State of interface needs to be stored somewhere. Normally, this is done server-side, and user name would be checked to know which state to revert to, however not all developers want to force users to sign up at a website.  

    This is where **local storage** comes in. A key would be kept on user’s computer and key would be read out when user returns.  

    The main problem with HTTP as the main transport layer of the Web is that it is stateless. This means that when an application is opened and closed, its state will be reset next time it is opened.

2. **What information should not be stored in local storage?**  

    Sensitive Personal Information: Local storage is not secure and can be accessed by JavaScript running on the same domain. Therefore, it is not suitable for storing sensitive personal information such as passwords, social security numbers, credit card details, or any other data that could lead to identity theft or financial harm.

3. **Local storage can store what type of data? How would you convert it to that type before storing?**  
    Local storage stores strings only.  Convert to string data type by using the native JSON.stringify() and JSON.parse() methods:

## Links to resources used for these notes

* [Local Storage And How To Use It On Websites](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/10/local-storage-and-how-to-use-it/)
* [The Past, Present, and Future of Local Storage for Web Applications](http://diveinto.html5doctor.com/storage.html)
